your money is not safe in the banks
because this is the financial crisis
part two you came here for the truth so
let me unveil that for you and today's
video we are going to look at why this
is not exactly the financial crisis part
two but I'm going to show you where the
weakest link is some have said this is
it all the banks are collapsing it's
going to take everything with it there's
going to be this major deflation that's
going to empty out the bank accounts and
of course the FDI
has no ability to save everyone so
there's going to be chaos well let's
look at fact versus fiction I have been
breaking this down every single day for
many many years now if you haven't been
staying tuned to this channel that whole
time don't worry I'm going to explain it
all I have it written down the points
that I need to get to so you'll be up to
speed in this one video let's get into
it right away we'll take a trip down
Memory Lane as you can see New York
Community Bank agrees to buy a large
portion of Signature Bank this was back
in March 20 of
2023 and so you have NYCB they're saying
hey we're going to step in Signature
Bank starts failing no worries we got it
all right and then what happened after
that you had some other banks that began
to fail svb and others credit s in
Europe so we had a big problem and they
had some things that I'll show you here
and they stepped in with the Federal
Reserve starting the
btfp bank term funding program which is
a Lifeline to the banks who need it and
more recently there's been some changes
with that lifeline and so they kind of
stepped in and basically said all right
so the story is you need some money you
need some of this cash at the time
liquidity but who's going to accept it
and so what we found out was the initial
response was you know okay it wasn't
that big but it started to grow and grow
and grow but they realized as time went
on that this was a way to Simply use the
btfp as a source of income they were
making money off of this but who
actually needed it it was the small
Banks the small Banks were the ones who
were having these issues
so those who needed the money most yeah
they were taking it but there's a
fundamental problem here and I'm going
to explain that in a moment let me show
you this this is now signs of trouble at
Regional Banks reignite sector fears New
York Community Bank Corp credit rating
cut to junk shares fall
26% on Friday okay there is a definite
problem at this company and you know
that why
because when you see the you know the
quotes the president the CEO everything
is fine we are going to be just fine
take your money and run go on Take the
Money and Run okay that's what exactly
what you've got to be doing if you got
your cash anywhere near there Bank
stocks slid on Friday uh led by 26%
decline in NYCB after more signs of
trouble at the lender and a small peer
revive fears about the stabil and a
smaller peer revive fears about the
stability of the sector a year after a
string of high profile failures you know
everybody thought it was done it was
swept under the rug and for the most
part it was we don't know exactly what
went on a lot of that was kept uh away
from the public but we do know that no
more public failures you know one or two
here and there but it wasn't a big thing
suddenly so hey the Federal Reserve
resolved the crisis stocks didn't really
come down that far as a result of it
Banks didn't start laying off people
like crazy it was certainly contained on
the surface now we've had this is the
biggest crack we have seen since March
of 2023 exactly a year later kind of odd
the way that's been working so NYCB
closed its to its lowest level since
1997 so they've got problems they're not
the only one material weakness as they
see here uh that language is
particularly troubling that creates a
lot of risk and uncertainty so what
happens it is a snowball effect the
company's done at this point you can't
resolve this this crisis is going to
result in another company buying them up
all right and who's that going to be H
it's going to be the JP Mor orans of the
world whether it's JP or another I'm
sure there would be some big bank that
steps in and saves the day they buy
those assets for pennies on the dollar
congratulations Fitch ratings cut their
credit rating to junk after the bank's
recent disclosures prompted a
reconsideration about how adequately it
is prepared for potential commercial
real estate losses that's when I need to
get into the details of what's been
going on very short 2-minute history
lesson what's going on here well March
2023 banks failed and then
NYCB start it stepped in okay so there
it is extending the lifeline they're
like hey we're going to help you out
Regional banks are one of these issues
because they loan to the commercial
Banks that's they are the ones that do
this overwhelmingly so they they can
then take their Capital that they have
they give it in this loan over here hey
we're going to loan this out to you
we're going to give you cash but there's
just one problem you see interest rates
were very different a few years ago than
they are today or in 2023 and that's
where things start to get messy all
right quickly what happened why these uh
Banks they basically lost a lot of money
and why did this happen when they were
buying assets remember you got a A bank
and you're going to put your money in
that bank you're going to put it into
some sort of you know guaranteed return
whatever the case is they take your
money okay whether it's through a
deposit whether anything they have to
give you a rate of return in advance so
they're going to invest in something
they were invest in things like mortgage
back Securities even though it's garbage
why because when everything was at 0%
interest rate these mortgage back
Securities were giving a little bit but
time passed interest rates Rose and
everything was given cash those assets
they bought though years ago were now
worth much less than they bought them
for and this created a big issue because
now they had all these losses at the
same time they're heavily exposed to
commercial loans commercial real estate
and those have been dealing with a lot
of problems and you might be thinking
small Banks small problems it's not the
case because most of the loans are
actually from those smaller don't think
small like super small Banks it's it's
really just Regional Banks you know
svb was technically not part of that in
a sense right they they're a big Bank in
a sense think about that in that way
okay their exposure is the issue rating
agencies started to downgrade them when
they get downgraded now funds have to
turn them away oh we don't want that
stuff it's it's not the grade that we
want the higher up in grade the more
attractive it is to investors so ratings
in that sense do
matter uh same similarities to the
financial crisis there's no question
about it we do have this but it's on the
commercial side the commercial side is
where we have the problem you have one
thing the rating agencies start to
finally get win the bit and start to
downgrade you have problems because one
thing is buying up another then that's
failing this is is a collapse that's
going
on how do you save it how do you save a
banking system from
collapse think about that we'll get into
it in a
moment this is the Regional Bank ETF
which you know basically wasn't even
scared one one down 1% so you've got a
very serious problem and yet it's down
by 1% so they're not afraid investors
Are Not Afraid right now there's so much
love in the
markets office tower deal for $1 dollar
reveals anxiety among long-term buyers
largest Canadian pension takes steps to
limit office exposure they don't want it
here you go gone $1 this is Canada it's
the exact same issue nobody wants office
nobody wants retail it's it's not what
what's desirable right now I mean they
pockets of course whatever but the point
is in general that's an issue because
there is debt associated with this you
take out imagine you build a big tower
that's built with debt the debt is never
ever paid you got to understand this
people don't get this you build a big
tower that Tower is built in
1957 okay you look at it today that
building still has debt on it they're
constantly refinancing refinancing it's
that's the way this works these big
properties they have this ability to do
things and the us there there's a lot of
ability even other places too uh with
refinancing but I mean they're taking
advantage of the circumstance so that
debt you got to know what you're doing
you got to take the money out at the
right time you got to be able to
anticipate this but when interest rates
highs which have not been happening for
a very long time think about this so
imagine they've been going down this
whole time they start Rising uhoh now we
got a problem and that's what's going on
right now in commercial real estate
because it's
shortterm the problems are much worse in
Canada uh for some things uh than in the
United States you could see disposable
income on both sides versus the housing
prices what do you see what do you see
if you can't even read that you can like
the the text on there look the US is on
the left Canada's on the right the
disposable income is nowhere near where
housing prices are the most extreme
example of a housing bubble is in Canada
right now at this time be warned about
the dangers that could occur and this is
all hinging
on the Federal Reserve the Bank of
Canada and all the rest
really doing a
significant change to their whole policy
and that is starting to cut interest
rates but as you see here pce that's the
personal consumption expenditure which
is the federal reserve's favorite
measure of inflation well it shows the
biggest rise in the US inflation in four
months so you got an issue there right
if they are saying this if they're like
yeah well inflation's going up and we're
looking at our metrics well we cannot
cut interest rates yet we are not there
and so this is the
issue however you get into a bank crisis
inflation still coming up they can start
to do a backdoor QE backdoor
quantitative easing in order to prop up
these banks in order to make sure that
Li liquidity stays flowing they will
devalue your currency
significantly understand that they will
allow inflation to go wild if it means
rescuing the banks so this is the the
Dilemma that we have today that the
banks are undergoing stress commercial
real estate Regional Banks those are the
big issues and then you move out and
look at where inflation is going this is
the issue because they got to start
cutting rapidly but inflation still too
high According to some metrics we will
see what happens and if you want to know
all of this in depth everybody on my
finance Friday who there's more people
joining all the time and I'm so
appreciative of all these people
listening to me for two hours getting
into the depths of this stuff you can't
do that in a 10-minute video on YouTube
this is 2 hours every single Friday
Finance Friday live shout out to the
finance Friday Live Crew I want to thank
you all for watching this today check
that link in the description if you want
to know more about that hit that thumbs
up button on the way out I do appreciate
that can we get the fireworks to happen
all right I want to thank you for being
here and I'll see you tomorrow take care